pds4/xed/README.md, before:

# xed - xml editor

## About the name

`xed` is like `sed`, but for xml. Specifically, it's for PDS4 labels. It might work for other files, but I haven't tested this and wouldn't recommend it. It aims to perform small edits to xml files from the command line with a great degree of control.

## Modes of operation

`xed` supports two modes of operation: ad-hoc and json mode.

### Ad-hoc mode

Ad-hoc mode runs a single operation on a batch of files. It can be performed entirely from the command line, Unlike sed, only a single command can be run from the command line at a time. This makes the commands easier to read than sed.

Example:
```bash
./xed.py --command <command> --path <path> --name <name> --value <value> <files>
````

* *Command* is the command that you want to run on the file. A list of commands is below.
* *Path* is the XPATH expression that points to the element you want to operate on. If your path points to multiple elements, it will operate on all of them.
* *Name* is usually the name of the element you want to create. It depends on the command
* *Value* is usually the content of the element that you want to add. This also depends on the command.
* *Search* is usually a substring that you want to replace.


*command* and *path* are always required. Whether *name*, *value*, and *search* are required depends on the command. See the command reference below.

### JSON mode

JSON mode runs a list of commands, specified in a json file, on a batch of files. Using compounded edits, it's possible to completely remake a label with this mode. It would be better to use a different tool to build labels from scratch, though.

Example:
`./xed.py --json <json file> <filenames>`

a json file would look like:

```json
[
  {"command":  "(command name)", "path":  "(path}", "name": "(name)", "value": "(value)" },
  {"command":  "(command name)", "path":  "(path}", "name": "(name)", "value": "(value)" }
]
```

This is very similar to the ad-hoc usage.

## Command Reference

### replace

Replace the content of a text element at PATH with VALUE.

### substitute

Replace the instances of SEARCH inside  of a text element at PATH with VALUE.


### insert_xml

Insert a complex element, defined by VALUE, under PATH

### insert_element

Insert a text element, with a name of NAME and a text value of VALUE, under PATH

### insert_element_after

Insert a text element, with a name of NAME and a text value of VALUE, after PATH

### insert_xml_after

Insert a complex element, defined by VALUE, after PATH

### delete

Delete the node located at PATH

### empty

Delete all of the nodes under PATH

## In-place vs. stdout

By default, xed will send its output to stdout. You can modify a file in place by adding the `--inplace` option. This will backup the file to filename.bak unless you suppress the backup with `--nobackup`. Be very sure that you know what you know what you are doing before using `--nobackup`.

## Caveats

The xml output isn't well formatted. You'll want to run it back through a formatter such as tidy or xmllint.

Commit message:

updated the caveats to indicate that the output is now pretty-printed

pds4/xed/README.md, after:

# xed - xml editor

## About the name

`xed` is like `sed`, but for xml. Specifically, it's for PDS4 labels. It might work for other files, but I haven't tested this and wouldn't recommend it. It aims to perform small edits to xml files from the command line with a great degree of control.

## Modes of operation

`xed` supports two modes of operation: ad-hoc and json mode.

### Ad-hoc mode

Ad-hoc mode runs a single operation on a batch of files. It can be performed entirely from the command line, Unlike sed, only a single command can be run from the command line at a time. This makes the commands easier to read than sed.

Example:
```bash
./xed.py --command <command> --path <path> --name <name> --value <value> <files>
````

* *Command* is the command that you want to run on the file. A list of commands is below.
* *Path* is the XPATH expression that points to the element you want to operate on. If your path points to multiple elements, it will operate on all of them.
* *Name* is usually the name of the element you want to create. It depends on the command
* *Value* is usually the content of the element that you want to add. This also depends on the command.
* *Search* is usually a substring that you want to replace.


*command* and *path* are always required. Whether *name*, *value*, and *search* are required depends on the command. See the command reference below.

### JSON mode

JSON mode runs a list of commands, specified in a json file, on a batch of files. Using compounded edits, it's possible to completely remake a label with this mode. It would be better to use a different tool to build labels from scratch, though.

Example:
`./xed.py --json <json file> <filenames>`

a json file would look like:

```json
[
  {"command":  "(command name)", "path":  "(path}", "name": "(name)", "value": "(value)" },
  {"command":  "(command name)", "path":  "(path}", "name": "(name)", "value": "(value)" }
]
```

This is very similar to the ad-hoc usage.

## Command Reference

### replace

Replace the content of a text element at PATH with VALUE.

### substitute

Replace the instances of SEARCH inside  of a text element at PATH with VALUE.


### insert_xml

Insert a complex element, defined by VALUE, under PATH

### insert_element

Insert a text element, with a name of NAME and a text value of VALUE, under PATH

### insert_element_after

Insert a text element, with a name of NAME and a text value of VALUE, after PATH

### insert_xml_after

Insert a complex element, defined by VALUE, after PATH

### delete

Delete the node located at PATH

### empty

Delete all of the nodes under PATH

## In-place vs. stdout

By default, xed will send its output to stdout. You can modify a file in place by adding the `--inplace` option. This will backup the file to filename.bak unless you suppress the backup with `--nobackup`. Be very sure that you know what you know what you are doing before using `--nobackup`.

## Caveats

The xml output will be automatically pretty-printed on output. This will generally look OK, but it may not look exactly
the same as the input file. This is still probably better than the previous output, which was not formatted
at all.
